New post : Azure seen by developers (#172)
ippontech/blog-usa: posts/azure-seen-by-developers.md

---
authors:
- Alban Versaveau
tags:
- Azure
- Cloud
- Serverless
- Development
date: 2021-03-22T20:00:00.000Z
title: "Microsoft Azure, as seen by developers"
image: https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_cover.jpg
---

> This article is intended for developers who are new to the Microsoft Azure cloud. It is intended to help them get to grips with the platform in order to help them become operational to create and maintain web applications in Azure. Thus, this article will present the most useful components for developers such as the essential web applications (web apps), databases (DBs), storage spaces (storages) and functions (functions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article is intended for developers who are new to Microsoft Azure cloud. It is intended to help them understand the platform to help them become operational to create and maintain web applications in Azure. This article will present the most useful components for developers such as web applications, databases (DBs), storage spaces, and functions.
```

Link to the Microsoft Azure platform: [https://portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com)

Link to the Azure SDK: [https://azure.microsoft.com/fr-fr/downloads/](https://azure.microsoft.com/fr-fr/downloads/)

# Global view

![Figure 1: Home page](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_1.png)

From the home page, you can access the most useful links in the Favorites menu located in the left column. This menu is divided as follows:
 - All Resources
 - Resource Groups
 - App Services
 - Storage Accounts
 - SQL Databases
 - Azure Database for MySQL
 - Azure Cosmos DB
 - Function App

We will now go through these shortcuts that have been proposed, both in terms of utility and interfaces.

## All Resources

![Figure 2 : "All resources" view](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_2.png)

> As its name suggests, this view lists all the resources (web apps, databases, storages, functions, etc.) to which you have access for all projects and environments. It is possible to play with the filters as shown in _Figure 2_ to display all of the resources in the integration environment (INT) or to display only the web apps of the INT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As its name suggests, this view lists all the resources (web apps, databases, storages, functions, etc.) to which you have access for all projects and environments. It is possible to play with the filters as shown in _Figure 2_ to display all the resources in the integration environment (INT) or to display only the web apps of the INT.
```

> As its name suggests, this view lists all the resources (web apps, DBs, storages, functions, etc.) to which you have access, for all projects and environments. It is possible to play with the filters as shown in _Figure 2_ to display, for example, all the resources of the integration environment (int) or to display only the web apps of the int.

Author: The integration environment.
I have updated it as follows :
"...in the integration environment (INT) or to display only the web apps of the INT."
instead of 
"...in the integration environment (int) or to display only the web apps of the int."

## Resource Groups

![Figure 3 : "Resource groups" view](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_3.png)

This view groups all resources by project, environment, and region. Again, filters can be used to help you view only the resources you want, such as all the environments in a single project.

Clicking on a resource group brings you to the interface shown in _Figure 4_.

![Figure 4 : "Resource group" view](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_4.png)

> This view details the components of the Resource Group of INT. The most interesting components are web apps, storages (containers and queues), databases, and function apps (serverless functions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This view details the components of the Resource Group of INT. The most interesting components are web apps, storage (containers and queues), databases, and function apps (serverless functions).
```

Now that you have studied the different views allowing access to resources, you will see the details of each of the components that can be useful for the development of a project.

# Detailed View of Resources

## Web Apps

![Figure 5 : "Home" view of a web app](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_5.png)

> From this view, you can administer your web app, in particular by starting, restarting, or stopping it. This view also allows you to know the URL of the web app, which will allow front end developers to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this view, you can administer your web app by starting, restarting, or stopping it. This view also allows you to see the URL of the web app, which will allow front-end developers to access it.
```

To configure Application Insights (Azure Monitor feature) in your application, you can follow [this documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/fr-fr/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) which redirects to the web page shown in Figure 9.

## Databases	

![Figure 10 : View of a SQL Server DB](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_10.png)

This view is the home page of a SQL Server DB. Among other things, it allows you to access the SQL Server via the _srvint_ link located on the right side of the screen. It also provides two monitoring indicators on the DB which are the CPU usage and the disk fill rate.

In the left menu there are useful shortcuts such as "Query Performance Insight" which informs about the performance of the database by type of metrics and "Connection Strings" which lists the connection strings to the DB.

![Figure 11 : Query Performance Insight page view](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_11.png)

> This list view allows you to visualize the performance of your DB with several very useful filters. Indeed, you can choose to observe the CPU performance, but also the input/output in terms of data or logs, the duration of the queries and finally the number of execution of the queries, all on time intervals chosen by another filter. Thus, this tool can be very useful when the need to analyze or improve the performance of the DB is felt.

Reviewer 2: This list view allows you to visualize the performance of your DB with several useful filters. You can choose to observe the CPU performance, the input/output in terms of data or logs, the duration of the queries, and the number of executions of the queries -- all on-time intervals chosen by another filter. Therefore, this tool can be useful when there is a need to analyze or improve the performance of the DB.

Let's now move to the "Connection Strings" view.

![Figure 12 : View of the Connection Strings page](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_12.png)

> This view lists the different connection strings available for C#, C++, Java, PHP, Go, and the ODBC standard for more openness. Normally, you should see these strings in the boxes, but they have been removed for confidentiality reasons. All you have to do is to copy your URL into your own DB access configuration and customize your authentication information, the famous user/password!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This view lists the different connection strings available for C#, C++, Java, PHP, Go, and the ODBC standard. Normally, you should see these strings in the boxes, but they have been removed for confidentiality reasons. All you must do is to copy your URL into your own DB access configuration and customize your authentication information, the famous user/password!
```

> This view lists the different connection strings available for C#, C++, Java, PHP, Go and finally the ODBC standard for more openness. Normally, you should see these strings in the boxes but they have been removed for confidentiality reasons. All you have to do is to copy the URL you are interested in into your own DB access configuration and customize your authentication information, the famous user/password!

Reviewer 2: This view lists the different connection strings available for C#, C++, Java, PHP, Go, and the ODBC standard for more openness. Normally, you should see these strings in the boxes, but they have been removed for confidentiality reasons. All you have to do is to copy your URL into your own DB access configuration and customize your authentication information, the famous user/password!

Now go back to the DB overview page to go to the DB server by clicking on the _srvint_ link.

![Figure 13 : View of a SQL Server](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_13.png)

> From this screen, you have the contact of the DB administrator in the "Active Directory Admin" field in case you need support and a quick link back to _dbint_ that redirects you to the DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this screen, you have the contact information of the DB administrator in the "Active Directory Admin" field in case you need support and a quick link back to _dbint_ that redirects you to the DB.
```

> In the left menu there are some useful shortcuts like SQL databases which again allows you to find the link to the DB or _Firewalls and virtual networks_ which allows you to manage the IP addresses allowed to connect to the DB.

Reviewer 2: In the left menu, there are some useful shortcuts, such as SQL databases, which allow you to find the link to the DB or _Firewalls, and virtual networks_ which allows you to manage the IP addresses allowed to connect to the DB.

![Figure 14 : "SQL databases" view](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_14.png)

This screen lists all the DBs created in the SQL Server you are browsing in order to retrieve the connection strings to the different DBs.

![Figure 15 : "Firewalls and virtual networks" view](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_15.png)

This view allows you to create as many rules as needed to allow single IP addresses or ranges of IP addresses to connect to the DB. Developers can create rules to allow IP address ranges from their workplace to access remote DBs from their own computer.

## Storages

### Overview

![Figure 16 : "Overview of storage accounts" view](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_16.png)

> This view is the home page of a storage account. It provides access to the different storage services such as containers, file shares, tables and queues (we will only develop containers and queues). It also provides a quick link to the _Azure Storage_ online documentation.

Reviewer 2: This view is the home page of a storage account. It provides access to the different storage services, such as containers, file shares, tables, and queues (we will only develop containers and queues). It also provides a quick link to the _Azure Storage_ online documentation.

### Documentation

![Figure 17 : Azure storage online documentation](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_17.png)

To configure Azure Storage in your application, you can follow [this documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/fr-fr/azure/storage/common/storage-introduction), which redirects to the web page shown in Figure 16.

> The left-hand menu also contains useful shortcuts such as _Storage explorer_, which allows you to browse the tree structure of storage resources, _Access keys_, which allows you to retrieve application connection information to the storage code, and _Shared access signature_, which allows you to generate read and/or write access tokens for storage resources.

Reviewer 2: The left-hand menu also contains useful shortcuts, including _Storage explorer_, which allows you to browse the tree structure of storage resources, _Access keys_, which allows you to retrieve application connection information to the storage code, and _Shared access signature_, which allows you to generate read and/or write access tokens for storage resources.

![Figure 18 : Access keys for the connection to the storage](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_18.png)

This view provides the two key elements for the connection of a web app to an Azure storage: the Account name and the Account key. These two pieces of information will be entered in the application's environment variables and used by the Azure library when connecting to the storage of the environment concerned.

![Figure 19 : the Shared access signature to obtain rights on the storage](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_19.png)

> This view allows you to generate access tokens (which are in fact, URIs) providing restricted access rights to the storage and limited in time in order to secure the data stored. Without a signature, a web app will not be able to access the resources of its storage. As far as signature generation is concerned, it is possible to generate a URI with read-and-write rights on all the storage resources for an unlimited period of time, but be careful about security. It is also possible to provide a read-only access token for one hour. Everything depends on the _need_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This view allows you to generate access tokens (which are in fact, URIs) providing restricted access rights to the storage and limited in time in order to secure the data stored. Without a signature, a web app will not be able to access the resources of its storage. As far as signature generation is concerned, it is possible to generate a URI with read-and-write permissions on all the storage resources for an unlimited period but be careful about security. It is also possible to provide a read-only access token for one hour. Everything depends on the _need_.
```

> This view allows to generate access tokens (which are in fact URIs) providing restricted access rights to the storage and limited in time in order to secure the data stored there. Without a signature, a web app will not be able to access the resources of its storage. As far as signature generation is concerned, it is possible to generate a URI with read and write rights on all the storage resources for an unlimited period of time, but be careful about security. It is also possible to provide a read-only access token for one hour. Everything depends on the need.

Reviewer 2: This view allows you to generate access tokens (which are in fact, URIs) providing restricted access rights to the storage and limited in time in order to secure the data stored. Without a signature, a web app will not be able to access the resources of its storage. As far as signature generation is concerned, it is possible to generate a URI with read-and-write rights on all the storage resources for an unlimited period of time, but be careful about security. It is also possible to provide a read-only access token for one hour. Everything depends on the _need_.

### Containers

![Figure 20 : the storage containers](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_20.png)

> This view lists all the containers created in the storage. It allows to create new ones, to modify them after creation and to delete them. Let's simulate the creation of a new container.

Reviewer 2: This view lists all the containers created in the storage. It allows you to create new ones, to modify them after creation, and to delete them. Let's now simulate the creation of a new container.

![Figure 21 : creation of a new Blob container](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_21.png)

This view is the interface for creating a new container. It is very simple, requiring only the name of the new container and the access level. When you click on the drop-down list, the three options shown in Figure 22 are displayed.

![Figure 22 : editing the access level of a Blob container](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_22.png)

> The three levels of access to a container are _Private_, _Blob_ and _Container_. Configured on Private, a token is required to access the resources of the container. Configured on Blob, it is possible to access the resources hosted in the storage without an access token. Finally, configured on Container, it is possible to access the contents of the containers without access token.

Reviewer 2: The three levels of access to a container are _Private_, _Blob_, and _Container_. Configured on _Private_, a token is required to access the resources of the container. Configured on _Blob_, it is possible to access the resources hosted in the storage without an access token. Finally, configured on _Container_, it is possible to access the contents of the containers without an access token.

![Figure 23 : editing the access level of a Container](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_23.png)

> It is possible to change the accessibility level of a container even after it has been created by right-clicking on it, which can be very useful.

Reviewer 2: It is possible to change the accessibility level of a container, even after it has been created.  Simply right-click on it.

Finally, enter the container to view its contents.

![Figure 24 : content of a Blob container](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_24.png)

> This view lists all the blobs contained in a container. A container can contain three types of blobs namely _Block blobs_, _Append blobs_ and _Page blobs_.

Reviewer 2: This view lists all the blobs contained in a container. A container can contain three types of blobs namely _Block blobs_, _Append blobs_, and _Page blobs_.

> _Block blobs_ are designed to store text or binary files, and to load large files efficiently. _Append blobs_ are designed for append operations such as logging. Finally, _Page blobs_ are made up of pages of up to 512 bytes that can reach a total size of 8 TB. They are designed for frequent random read/write operations. In the context of our project, we only use _Block blobs_.

Reviewer 2: _Block blobs_ are designed to store text or binary files, and to load large files efficiently. _Append blobs_ are designed for append operations such as logging. _Page blobs_ are made up of pages of up to 512 bytes that can reach a total size of 8 TB. They are designed for frequent random read/write operations. In the context of our project, we only use _Block blobs_.

> Thus, the view of a container allows to visualize the blobs contained in it as well as the public URL at which they are accessible, but also to upload new ones, to delete them and even to create access tokens specific to these blobs.

Reviewer 2: The view of a container will now allow you to visualize the blobs contained in it, as well as the public URL at which they are accessible, but also to upload new ones, delete them, and even to create access tokens specific to these blobs.

### Queues

![Figure 25 : the queues of a storage](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_25.png)

This view lists all the queues created in the storage. It allows you to create new queues and to delete them. Simulate the creation of a new queue by clicking on the '+' button next to the _Refresh_ button.

![Figure 26 : creation of a new queue](https://github.com/aversaveau/blog-usa/blob/azureSeenByDevs/images/2021/03/azure_seen_by_devs_26.png)

> This view is the interface for creating a new queue. Very simple, it just requires the name of the new queue. Save, it is created and usable.

Reviewer 2: This view is the interface for creating a new queue. It's quite simple -- it just requires the name of the _new_ queue. Once saved, it is created and usable.

## Functions

> In the context of our project, we did not have the opportunity to use them, but you should know that Azure offers a service of _Function apps_ which are serverless applications that can be hosted on different runtimes such as Java, .Net, Node, Python or even Powershell.

Reviewer 2: In the context of our project, although we did not have the opportunity to use them, you should know that Azure offers a service of _Function apps_, which are serverless applications that can be hosted on different runtimes such as Java, .Net, Node, Python, and even Powershell.

> So you can create a _function app_ that acts as a trigger when a file is dropped in a container or when a message is dropped in a queue.

Reviewer 2: With this, you can create a _function app_ that acts as a trigger when a file is dropped in a container or when a message is dropped in a queue.

# Conclusion

> Through this article, you have taken a first step into the Azure cloud offered by Microsoft by browsing the components useful to web application developers.

Reviewer 2: Throughout this article, you have taken then first step into the Azure cloud offered by Microsoft by browsing the components useful to web application developers.

> In particular, you have studied the _web apps_ that host the code of your web application, the _DBs_ that store the data of your web app, the _storages_ that are useful for storing files and messages and you also know that the _functions_ are at your disposal to configure HTTP triggers on all types of events observed by your web app.

Reviewer 2: In summary, you have studied the _web apps_ that host the **code** of your web application, the _DBs_ that store the **data** of your web app, the _storages_ that are useful for **storing** files and messages, and you are now aware that the _functions_ are at your disposal to configure HTTP triggers on all types of events observed by your web app.
